docs/cli/reference/extensions.mdx, before:

---
title: Extensions
sidebarTitle: Extension Command
description: How to use the `extension` command in the Scale CLI.
---

The `extension` command is used to interact with Scale Extensions locally. `ext` is an alias for `extension`.

## New

To create a new Scale Extension, run the following command:

```bash
scale extension new
```

This will create a new scale extension in the current directory in the [Go](https://golang.org/) programming language.

You can also specify the language of the extension you want to create by using the `--language` flag:

```bash
scale extension new --language <language>
```

The following languages are currently supported:

  * `go` - [Go](/languages/golang/overview)
  * `rust` - [Rust](/languages/rust/overview)
  * `ts` - [TypeScript/JavaScript](/languages/javascript-typescript/overview)

<Note>
    We are actively working on adding support for more languages. If you would like to see a specific language supported, please let
    us know by joining the `#scale` channel in [our Discord](https://loopholelabs.com/discord).
</Note>

## Generate

Generate a scale extension from a extension file

```bash
scale extension generate <name:tag>
```

This will generate the extension defined in the local directory, in your `local/` organization.


<Note>
    To learn about how to install the toolchain for a specific language, see the documentation for that language:

    * [Go](/languages/golang/overview)
    * [Rust](/languages/rust/overview)
</Note>

## List

The `list` subcommand is used to list all the compiled Scale Extension available in the local Scale Extension cache.

```bash
scale extension list
```

Commit message:

add flag info to ext generate

docs/cli/reference/extensions.mdx, after:

---
title: Extensions
sidebarTitle: Extension Command
description: How to use the `extension` command in the Scale CLI.
---

The `extension` command is used to interact with Scale Extensions locally. `ext` is an alias for `extension`.

## New

To create a new Scale Extension, run the following command:

```bash
scale extension new
```

This will create a new scale extension in the current directory in the [Go](https://golang.org/) programming language.

You can also specify the language of the extension you want to create by using the `--language` flag:

```bash
scale extension new --language <language>
```

The following languages are currently supported:

  * `go` - [Go](/languages/golang/overview)
  * `rust` - [Rust](/languages/rust/overview)
  * `ts` - [TypeScript/JavaScript](/languages/javascript-typescript/overview)

<Note>
    We are actively working on adding support for more languages. If you would like to see a specific language supported, please let
    us know by joining the `#scale` channel in [our Discord](https://loopholelabs.com/discord).
</Note>

## Generate

Generate a scale extension from a extension file

```bash
scale extension generate <name:tag>
```

The `--directory` flag can be used to specify the directory where the extension file exists:

```bash
scale extension generate <name:tag> --directory <directory>
```

This will generate the extension defined in the local directory, in your `local/` organization.


<Note>
    To learn about how to install the toolchain for a specific language, see the documentation for that language:

    * [Go](/languages/golang/overview)
    * [Rust](/languages/rust/overview)
</Note>

## List

The `list` subcommand is used to list all the compiled Scale Extension available in the local Scale Extension cache.

```bash
scale extension list
```
