README.md, before:

# Scale

[![License: Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-brightgreen.svg)](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
[![Discord](https://dcbadge.vercel.app/api/server/JYmFhtdPeu?style=flat)](https://loopholelabs.io/discord)

[Scale](https://scale.sh) is a highly-performant WebAssembly function runtime that enables composable, language-agnostic software development.

With Scale Functions you can write code in any language, then use it from any other language, environment, or runtime, with state-of-the-art sandboxing qualities, startup times, and overall performance. This initial release includes client support for [Golang](https://golang.org) and [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/), with runtimes for [Golang](https://golang.org) and [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/).

## Usage and Documentation

Usage instructions and documentation for the Scale Runtime is available at [https://scale.sh/docs](https://scale.sh/docs).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at [https://github.com/loopholelabs/scale][gitrepo]. For more
contribution information check
out [the contribution guide](https://github.com/loopholelabs/scale/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## License

The Scale project is available as open source under the terms of
the [Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the Scale project’s codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [CNCF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md).

## Project Managed By:

[![https://loopholelabs.io][loopholelabs]](https://loopholelabs.io)

[gitrepo]: https://github.com/loopholelabs/scale
[loopholelabs]: https://cdn.loopholelabs.io/loopholelabs/LoopholeLabsLogo.svg
[loophomepage]: https://loopholelabs.io

Commit message:

Updating versions for release
Signed-off-by: Shivansh Vij <shivanshvij@loopholelabs.io>

README.md, after:

# Scale

[![License: Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-brightgreen.svg)](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
[![Discord](https://dcbadge.vercel.app/api/server/JYmFhtdPeu?style=flat)](https://loopholelabs.io/discord)

[Scale](https://scale.sh) is a framework for building high-performance plugin systems into any application, all powered by WebAssembly.

With Scale Functions your users can write fully typed plugins in any language they choose, and your application can easily and safely 
run those plugins with the Scale Runtime, which provides state-of-the-art sandboxing, low startup times, and extremely high performance.

Currently, guest plugins can be written in [Golang](https://golang.org), [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/), and [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/), with the Runtime supporting [Golang](https://golang.org) and [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) host applications.

## Usage and Documentation

Usage instructions and documentation for Scale is available at [https://scale.sh/docs](https://scale.sh/docs).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at [https://github.com/loopholelabs/scale][gitrepo]. For more
contribution information check
out [the contribution guide](https://github.com/loopholelabs/scale/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## License

The Scale project is available as open source under the terms of
the [Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the Scale project’s codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [CNCF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md).

## Project Managed By:

[![https://loopholelabs.io][loopholelabs]](https://loopholelabs.io)

[gitrepo]: https://github.com/loopholelabs/scale
[loopholelabs]: https://cdn.loopholelabs.io/loopholelabs/LoopholeLabsLogo.svg
[loophomepage]: https://loopholelabs.io
