docs/languages/rust/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: Overview
description: An overview of Rust support in Scale Functions
---

Scale Functions currently support using [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org) as the [Guest](#guest-support) language.

This means that you can write your Functions in Rust ([Guest Support](#guest-support)).

<Info>
    We are working on adding Host language support in the near future. If you would like to be part of this process,
    please join the `#scale` channel on our [Discord](https://loopholelabs.io/discord).
</Info>

## Guest Support

A Scale Function written in [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org) often looks something like this:

```rust scale.rs
use scale_signature_http::context::Context;

pub fn scale(ctx: &mut Context) -> Result<&mut Context, Box<dyn std::error::Error>> {
    ctx.response().set_body("Hello, World!".to_string());
    Ok(ctx)
}
```

The above example is a simple HTTP Function that responds with "Hello, World!" to any request.

Compiling these Functions requires the appropriate toolchain to be installed on your machine.

<Note>
    To streamline compiling Scale Functions in the future, we're working on a cloud build service that will allow you to
    compile your functions without having to install the toolchain on your machine. If you're interested in accessing this
    service as soon as it's available, please join the `#scale` on our [discord](https://loopholelabs.io/discord).
</Note>

<Snippet file="install-rust-toolchain.mdx" />

Commit message:

Dp/docs update (#119)
* Add simple scale sigs example

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* rm some notes, add ts links

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Add all signatures, some cli changes

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Add some detail on Sigs to golang overview

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Update rust

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Change details of sig example

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* update gitignore

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* trunk

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* trunk gitignore

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Add ts guest, sample

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Add reg chgs for just funcs

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Add sig analogue

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* add reg api spec

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* add sigs api ref

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* update api + markup endpoints

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

---------

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

docs/languages/rust/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: Overview
description: An overview of Rust support in Scale Functions
---

Scale Functions currently support using [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org) as a [Guest](#guest-support) language.

This means that you can write your Functions in Rust ([Guest Support](#guest-support)).

## Guest Support

A Scale Function written in [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org) often looks something like this:

```rust scale.rs
use scale_signature_http::context::Context;

pub fn scale(ctx: &mut Context) -> Result<&mut Context, Box<dyn std::error::Error>> {
    ctx.response().set_body("Hello, World!".to_string());
    Ok(ctx)
}
```

The above example is a simple HTTP Function that responds with "Hello, World!" to any request.

By default, the generated function will be configured to use the `HTTP Signature`,
which provides an interface for handling HTTP requests and responses. To learn more about the `HTTP Signature` and the
interfaces it provides, you can check out the [HTTP Signature Reference](/signatures/http). Learn more about Signatures in the [Signatures Overview](/signatures/overview).

Compiling these Functions requires the appropriate toolchain to be installed on your machine.

<Snippet file="install-rust-toolchain.mdx" />
