docs/languages/javascript-typescript/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: Overview
description: An overview of Javascript and Typescript support in Scale Functions
---

Scale Functions currently support using [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) and
[JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript) as the [Host](#host-support) language.

This means that you can run Functions written in any supported language inside a TypeScript or JavaScript application ([Host Support](#host-support)).

## Host Support

To use a compiled Scale Function (written in any supported language) inside a TypeScript or JavaScript application, there are 3 steps:
1. Import the Scale Function(s) into the TS/JS application by embedding them (using Webpack) or by using the Registry
2. Create a new Scale Runtime and pass in the Scale Function(s)
3. Call the `Run` method on the Scale Runtime with your request

### Importing Scale Functions

Scale Functions can be imported into a TS/JS application in two ways:
- [Embedding with Webpack](#embedding-scale-functions-with-webpack)
- [Embedding without Webpack](#embedding-scale-functions-without-webpack)
- [Using the Registry](#using-the-registry)

#### Embedding Scale Functions With Webpack

Scale Functions can be embedded into a TS/JS application by using our [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) loader, after it has been
exported using the `scale fn export` command (see [Exporting Scale Functions](/cli/exporting)).

<Tabs>
    <Tab title="TypeScript">
        ```typescript
        webpack(config: any, options: any) {
            config.module.rules.push({
                test: /\.scale$/,
                use: [ { loader: '@loopholelabs/scalefile/webpack' }],
            });
            return config
        }
        ```
    </Tab>
    <Tab title="JavaScript">
        ```javascript
        webpack(config, options) {
            config.module.rules.push({
                test: /\.scale$/,
                use: [ { loader: '@loopholelabs/scalefile/webpack' }],
            });
            return config
        }
        ```
    </Tab>
</Tabs>

<Note>
    The Webpack loader will automatically read and decode the exported `.scale` file, and return the decoded Scale Function as a
    `scale.Func` object.
</Note>

Once the Webpack loader has been configured, you can import the Scale Function into your TS/JS application by using the
`import` statement.

```javascript
import sf from "<path to exported function>"
```

#### Embedding Scale Functions without Webpack

If you'd prefer to not use Webpack, you can also use the `@loopholelabs/scalefile` package directly.

```javascript
import { Read } from "@loopholelabs/scalefile/scalefunc/helpers";

const sf = Read("<path to exported function>");
```


#### Using the Registry

Scale Functions can also be imported into a TS/JS application by using the Registry.

This has the advantage of allowing you import the function at runtime, rather than at compile time - however it does require your function
to be available in the [Scale Registry](/registry/overview). Functions will also automatically cached locally based on their
tags and hashes, so subsequent calls to `Download` will be much faster.

<Info>
    If you'd like use the registry from a browser environment, you can use the `@loopholelabs/scale/registry/browser` package
    instead of `@loopholelabs/scale/registry`.
</Info>

```javascript
import {
    Download,
    WithOrganization,
    WithAPIKey
} from '@loopholelabs/scale/registry'

const sf = Download(
            "<function name>",
            "<function tag>",
            WithOrganization("<organization name>"),
            WithAPIKey("<api key>")
        );
```

<Note>
    If your function is an official Scale Function you can omit the `WithOrganization` option, and if your function
    is marked as public you can safely omit the `WithAPIKey` option.

    All officially published scale functions are public. If you're interested in publishing your own functions, please join
    the `#scale` channel on our [discord](https://loopholelabs.io/discord).
</Note>

### Creating a Scale Runtime

Once you've imported your Scale Function(s) into your TS/JS application, you can create a new instance of the Scale Runtime
and pass in the Scale Function(s).

```javascript
import { New } from "@loopholelabs/scale";

const r = New([sf]);
```

### Running a Scale Function

Once you've created the Scale Runtime, you can call the `Instance` method on it to get a new runtime instance.
The `Context` method of the `Instance` can then be used to set the request body, and the `Run` method can be used to
run the Scale Function (or Functions).

```javascript
const i = r.Instance(null);
```

<Note>
    You'll notice that we're passing in `null` to the `r.Instance` method above. This is because it's possible to chain
    native functions alongside Scale Functions, and the `Instance` method will automatically pass the result of the
    previous function to the next one (and pass the responses back up through the chain).

    If you're not using a native handler at the end of the chain, you can pass in `null` to the `Instance` method.
</Note>

It's important to note that an `Instance` can be reused multiple times, but it's not thread-safe. If you need to run
multiple instances of a Scale Function concurrently, you'll need to create a new `Instance` for each one.

Instances are heavily optimized and will recycle themselves automatically when they're no longer in use. This means that
creating instances are very cheap and you can create as many as you need as often as you need.

<Info>
    The `Instance` method itself **is** thread-safe and can be called concurrently.
</Info>

### Putting it all Together

Here's a complete example of a TS/JS application that imports a Scale Function, creates a new Scale Runtime, and runs
it.

<Tabs>
    <Tab title="Embedding the Function With Webpack">
        ```javascript
        import { New } from "@loopholelabs/scale";
        // @ts-ignore
        import sf from "./hello-world.scale";

        (async () => {
            const r = await New([sf]);
            const i = await r.Instance(null);
            i.Context().Request.Body = "Hello, World!";
            i.Run()
            console.log(i.Context().Response.Body);
        })();
        ```
    </Tab>
    <Tab title="Embedding the Function Without Webpack">
        ```javascript
        import { New } from "@loopholelabs/scale";
        import { Read } from "@loopholelabs/scalefile/scalefunc/helpers";

        const sf = Read("./hello-world.scale");

        (async () => {
            const r = await New([sf]);
            const i = await r.Instance(null);
            i.Context().Request.Body = "Hello, World!";
            i.Run()
            console.log(i.Context().Response.Body);
        })();
        ```
    </Tab>
    <Tab title="Using the Scale Registry">
        ```javascript
        import { Download } from '@loopholelabs/scale/registry'
        import { New } from "@loopholelabs/scale";

        const sf = Download("hello-world", "latest");
        (async () => {
            const r = await New([sf]);
            const i = await r.Instance(null);
            i.Context().Request.Body = "Hello, World!";
            i.Run()
            console.log(i.Context().Response.Body);
        })();
        ```
    </Tab>
</Tabs>

## What's Next?

Now that you've learned how to use Scale Functions inside your TS/JS application, you should check out our pre-made
adapters for popular frameworks and libraries, such as [NextJS](/languages/javascript-typescript/adapters/nextjs).

Commit message:

Dp/docs update (#119)
* Add simple scale sigs example

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* rm some notes, add ts links

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Add all signatures, some cli changes

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Add some detail on Sigs to golang overview

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Update rust

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Change details of sig example

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* update gitignore

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* trunk

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* trunk gitignore

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Add ts guest, sample

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Add reg chgs for just funcs

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Add sig analogue

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* add reg api spec

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* add sigs api ref

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* update api + markup endpoints

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

---------

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

docs/languages/javascript-typescript/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: Overview
description: An overview of Javascript and Typescript support in Scale Functions
---

Scale Functions currently support using [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) and
[JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript) as the [Host](#host-support) language and as the [Guest](#guest-support).

This means that you can run Functions written in any supported language inside a TypeScript or JavaScript application ([Host Support](#host-support)) _as well as_ **write** functions in JS/TS and run them in other host languages, like [Golang](/languages/golang/overview).

## Guest Support

A Scale Function written in [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org) often looks something like this:

```TypeScript
import { Context } from 'scale-signature-http';

function scale(ctx: Context): Promise<Context> {
    ctx.response.setBody("Hello, World!");
    return ctx.next();
}
```

The above example is a simple HTTP Function that responds with "Hello, World!" to any request.

By default, the generated function will be configured to use the `HTTP Signature`,
which provides an interface for handling HTTP requests and responses. To learn more about the `HTTP Signature` and the
interfaces it provides, you can check out the [HTTP Signature Reference](/signatures/http). Learn more about Signatures in the [Signatures Overview](/signatures/overview).

## Host Support

To use a compiled Scale Function (written in any supported language) inside a TypeScript or JavaScript application, there are 3 steps:
1. Import the Scale Function(s) into the TS/JS application by embedding them (using Webpack) or by using the Registry
2. Create a new Scale Runtime and pass in the Scale Function(s)
3. Call the `Run` method on the Scale Runtime with your request

### Importing Scale Functions

Scale Functions can be imported into a TS/JS application in two ways:
- [Embedding with Webpack](#embedding-scale-functions-with-webpack)
- [Embedding without Webpack](#embedding-scale-functions-without-webpack)
- [Using the Registry](#using-the-registry)

#### Embedding Scale Functions With Webpack

Scale Functions can be embedded into a TS/JS application by using our [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) loader, after it has been
exported using the `scale fn export` command (see [Exporting Scale Functions](/cli/exporting)).

<Tabs>
    <Tab title="TypeScript">
        ```typescript
        webpack(config: any, options: any) {
            config.module.rules.push({
                test: /\.scale$/,
                use: [ { loader: '@loopholelabs/scalefile/webpack' }],
            });
            return config
        }
        ```
    </Tab>
    <Tab title="JavaScript">
        ```javascript
        webpack(config, options) {
            config.module.rules.push({
                test: /\.scale$/,
                use: [ { loader: '@loopholelabs/scalefile/webpack' }],
            });
            return config
        }
        ```
    </Tab>
</Tabs>

<Note>
    The Webpack loader will automatically read and decode the exported `.scale` file, and return the decoded Scale Function as a
    `scale.Func` object.
</Note>

Once the Webpack loader has been configured, you can import the Scale Function into your TS/JS application by using the
`import` statement.

```javascript
import sf from "<path to exported function>"
```

#### Embedding Scale Functions without Webpack

If you'd prefer to not use Webpack, you can also use the `@loopholelabs/scalefile` package directly.

```javascript
import { Read } from "@loopholelabs/scalefile/scalefunc/helpers";

const sf = Read("<path to exported function>");
```


#### Using the Registry

Scale Functions can also be imported into a TS/JS application by using the Registry.

This has the advantage of allowing you import the function at runtime, rather than at compile time - however it does require your function
to be available in the [Scale Registry](/registry/overview). Functions will also automatically cached locally based on their
tags and hashes, so subsequent calls to `Download` will be much faster.

<Info>
    If you'd like use the registry from a browser environment, you can use the `@loopholelabs/scale/registry/browser` package
    instead of `@loopholelabs/scale/registry`.
</Info>

```javascript
import {
    Download,
    WithOrganization,
    WithAPIKey
} from '@loopholelabs/scale/registry'

const sf = Download(
            "<function name>",
            "<function tag>",
            WithOrganization("<organization name>"),
            WithAPIKey("<api key>")
        );
```

<Note>
    If your function is an official Scale Function you can omit the `WithOrganization` option, and if your function
    is marked as public you can safely omit the `WithAPIKey` option.

    All officially published scale functions are public. If you're interested in publishing your own functions, please join
    the `#scale` channel on our [discord](https://loopholelabs.io/discord).
</Note>

### Creating a Scale Runtime

Once you've imported your Scale Function(s) into your TS/JS application, you can create a new instance of the Scale Runtime
and pass in the Scale Function(s).

```javascript
import { New } from "@loopholelabs/scale";

const r = New([sf]);
```

### Running a Scale Function

Once you've created the Scale Runtime, you can call the `Instance` method on it to get a new runtime instance.
The `Context` method of the `Instance` can then be used to set the request body, and the `Run` method can be used to
run the Scale Function (or Functions).

```javascript
const i = r.Instance(null);
```

<Note>
    You'll notice that we're passing in `null` to the `r.Instance` method above. This is because it's possible to chain
    native functions alongside Scale Functions, and the `Instance` method will automatically pass the result of the
    previous function to the next one (and pass the responses back up through the chain).

    If you're not using a native handler at the end of the chain, you can pass in `null` to the `Instance` method.
</Note>

It's important to note that an `Instance` can be reused multiple times, but it's not thread-safe. If you need to run
multiple instances of a Scale Function concurrently, you'll need to create a new `Instance` for each one.

Instances are heavily optimized and will recycle themselves automatically when they're no longer in use. This means that
creating instances are very cheap and you can create as many as you need as often as you need.

<Info>
    The `Instance` method itself **is** thread-safe and can be called concurrently.
</Info>

### Putting it all Together

Here's a complete example of a TS/JS application that imports a Scale Function, creates a new Scale Runtime, and runs
it.

<Tabs>
    <Tab title="Embedding the Function With Webpack">
        ```javascript
        import { New } from "@loopholelabs/scale";
        // @ts-ignore
        import sf from "./hello-world.scale";

        (async () => {
            const r = await New([sf]);
            const i = await r.Instance(null);
            i.Context().Request.Body = "Hello, World!";
            i.Run()
            console.log(i.Context().Response.Body);
        })();
        ```
    </Tab>
    <Tab title="Embedding the Function Without Webpack">
        ```javascript
        import { New } from "@loopholelabs/scale";
        import { Read } from "@loopholelabs/scalefile/scalefunc/helpers";

        const sf = Read("./hello-world.scale");

        (async () => {
            const r = await New([sf]);
            const i = await r.Instance(null);
            i.Context().Request.Body = "Hello, World!";
            i.Run()
            console.log(i.Context().Response.Body);
        })();
        ```
    </Tab>
    <Tab title="Using the Scale Registry">
        ```javascript
        import { Download } from '@loopholelabs/scale/registry'
        import { New } from "@loopholelabs/scale";

        const sf = Download("hello-world", "latest");
        (async () => {
            const r = await New([sf]);
            const i = await r.Instance(null);
            i.Context().Request.Body = "Hello, World!";
            i.Run()
            console.log(i.Context().Response.Body);
        })();
        ```
    </Tab>
</Tabs>

## What's Next?

Now that you've learned how to use Scale Functions inside your TS/JS application, you should check out our pre-made
adapters for popular frameworks and libraries, such as [NextJS](/languages/javascript-typescript/adapters/nextjs).
