docs/languages/golang/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: Overview
description: An overview of Golang support in Scale Functions
---

Scale Functions currently support using [Golang](https://go.dev) as both the [Guest](#guest-support) and the [Host](#host-support) language.

This means that you can write your Functions in Golang ([Guest Support](#guest-support)) and you can run Functions written in any supported
language inside a Golang application ([Host Support](#host-support)).

## Guest Support

A Scale Function written in [Golang](https://go.dev) often looks something like this:

 ```go scale.go
//go:build tinygo || js || wasm
package scale

import (
    signature "github.com/loopholelabs/scale-signature-http"
)

func Scale(ctx *signature.Context) (*signature.Context, error) {
    ctx.Response().SetBody("Hello, World!")
    return ctx.Next()
}
```

The above example is a simple HTTP Function that responds with "Hello, World!" to any request.

Compiling these Functions requires the appropriate toolchain to be installed on your machine.

<Note>
    To streamline compiling Scale Functions in the future, we're working on a cloud build service that will allow you to
    compile your functions without having to install the toolchain on your machine. If you're interested in accessing this
    service as soon as it's available, please join the `#scale` on our [discord](https://loopholelabs.io/discord).
</Note>

<Snippet file="install-golang-toolchain.mdx" />

## Host Support

To use a compiled Scale Function (written in any supported language) inside a Golang application, there are 3 steps:
1. Import the Scale Function(s) into the Golang application by embedding them or by using the Registry
2. Create a new Scale Runtime and pass in the Scale Function(s)
3. Call the `Run` method on the Scale Runtime with your request

### Importing Scale Functions

Scale Functions can be imported into a Golang application in two ways:
- [Embedding them Directly](#embedding-scale-functions)
- [Using the Registry](#using-the-registry)

#### Embedding Scale Functions

Scale Functions can be embedded into a Golang application by using the `//go:embed` directive, after it has been
exported using the `scale fn export` command (see [Exporting Scale Functions](/cli/exporting)).

```go
import (
	"embed"
	"github.com/loopholelabs/scalefile/scalefunc"
)

//go:embed <path to exported function>
var embeddedFunction []byte

func main() {
    // ...
    sf := new(ScaleFunc)
	_ = sf.Decode(embeddedFunction)
    // ...
}
```

#### Using the Registry

Scale Functions can also be imported into a Golang application by using the Registry.

This has the advantage of allowing you import the function at runtime, rather than at compile time - however it does require your function
to be available in the [Scale Registry](/registry/overview). Functions will also automatically cached locally based on their
tags and hashes, so subsequent calls to `Download` will be much faster.

```go
import "github.com/loopholelabs/scale/go/registry"

func main() {
	// ...
    sf, _ := registry.Download("<function name>", "<function tag>", registry.WithOrganization("<organization name>"), registry.WithAPIKey("<api key>"))
    // ...
}
```

<Note>
    If your function is an official Scale Function you can omit the `registry.WithOrganization` option, and if your function
    is marked as public you can safely omit the `registry.WithAPIKey` option.

    All officially published scale functions are public. If you're interested in publishing your own functions, please join
    the `#scale` channel on our [discord](https://loopholelabs.io/discord).
</Note>


### Creating a Scale Runtime

Once you've imported your Scale Function(s) into your Golang application, you can create a new instance of the Scale Runtime
and pass in the Scale Function(s).

```go
import (
	"context"
	scale "github.com/loopholelabs/scale/go"
)

func main() {
    // ...
	ctx := context.Background()
    r := scale.New(ctx, sf) // Or scale.New(ctx, sf1, sf2, sf3, ...)
    // ...
}
```

### Running a Scale Function

Once you've created the Scale Runtime, you can call the `Instance` method on it to get a new runtime instance.
The `Context` method of the `Instance` can then be used to set the request body, and the `Run` method can be used to
run the Scale Function (or Functions).

```go
import (
    "context"
)

func main() {
    // ...
    i, _ := r.Instance()
    i.Context().Request.Body = []byte("Hello, World!")

	ctx := context.Background()
    _ = i.Run(ctx)
    // ...
}
```

<Note>
    You'll notice that we're not passing anything into to the `r.Instance` method above. In actually, it is possible to pass in
    one or multiple native golang functions (with the signature `(ctx *signature.Context) (*signature.Context, error)`) to be run
    as part of the Scale Function chain.

    The `Instance` method will automatically pass the result of the  previous function to the next one (and pass the
    responses back up through the chain).

    If you're not using a native handler (or handlers) at the end of the chain, you can don't need to pass anything
    into the `r.Instance` method.
</Note>

It's important to note that an `Instance` can be reused multiple times, but it's not thread-safe. If you need to run
multiple instances of a Scale Function concurrently, you'll need to create a new `Instance` for each one.

Instances are heavily optimized and will recycle themselves automatically when they're no longer in use. This means that
creating instances are very cheap and you can create as many as you need as often as you need.

<Info>
    The `Instance` method itself **is** thread-safe and can be called concurrently.
</Info>

### Putting it all Together

Here's a complete example of a Golang application that imports a Scale Function, creates a new Scale Runtime, and runs
it.

<Tabs>
    <Tab title="Embedding the Function">
        ```go scale.go
        package main

        import (
            "context"
            "embed"
            "fmt"
            scale "github.com/loopholelabs/scale/go"
        )

        //go:embed hello-world-latest.scale
        var embeddedFunction []byte

        func main() {
            sf := new(scale.ScaleFunc)
            _ = sf.Decode(embeddedFunction)

            ctx := context.Background()
            r := scale.New(ctx, sf)

            i, _ := r.Instance()
            i.Context().Request.Body = []byte("Hello, World!")

            _ = i.Run(ctx)

            fmt.Println(string(i.Context().Response.Body))
        }
        ```
    </Tab>
    <Tab title="Using the Scale Registry">
        ```go scale.go
        package main

        import (
            "context"
            "fmt"
            scale "github.com/loopholelabs/scale/go"
            "github.com/loopholelabs/scale/go/registry"
        )

        func main() {
            sf, _ := registry.Download("hello-world", "latest")

            ctx := context.Background()
            r := scale.New(ctx, sf)

            i, _ := r.Instance()
            i.Context().Request.Body = []byte("Hello, World!")

            _ = i.Run(ctx)

            fmt.Println(string(i.Context().Response.Body))
        }
        ```
    </Tab>
</Tabs>

## What's Next?

Now that you've learned how to use Scale Functions inside your Golang application, you should check out our pre-made
adapters for popular Golang frameworks and libraries, such as [net/http](/languages/golang/adapters/net-http) and [FastHTTP](/languages/golang/adapters/fasthttp).

Commit message:

Dp/docs update (#119)
* Add simple scale sigs example

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* rm some notes, add ts links

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Add all signatures, some cli changes

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Add some detail on Sigs to golang overview

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Update rust

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Change details of sig example

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* update gitignore

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* trunk

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* trunk gitignore

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Add ts guest, sample

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Add reg chgs for just funcs

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* Add sig analogue

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* add reg api spec

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* add sigs api ref

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

* update api + markup endpoints

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

---------

Signed-off-by: Daniel Phillips <daniel@loopholelabs.io>

docs/languages/golang/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: Overview
description: An overview of Golang support in Scale Functions
---

Scale Functions currently support using [Golang](https://go.dev) as both a [Guest](#guest-support) and the [Host](#host-support) language.

This means that you can write your Functions in Golang ([Guest Support](#guest-support)) and you can run Functions written in any supported
language inside a Golang application ([Host Support](#host-support)).

## Guest Support

A Scale Function written in [Golang](https://go.dev) often looks something like this:

 ```go scale.go
//go:build tinygo || js || wasm
package scale

import (
    signature "github.com/loopholelabs/scale-signature-http"
)

func Scale(ctx *signature.Context) (*signature.Context, error) {
    ctx.Response().SetBody("Hello, World!")
    return ctx.Next()
}
```

The above example is a simple HTTP Function that responds with "Hello, World!" to any request.

By default, the generated function will be configured to use the `HTTP Signature`,
which provides an interface for handling HTTP requests and responses. To learn more about the `HTTP Signature` and the
interfaces it provides, you can check out the [HTTP Signature Reference](/signatures/http). Learn more about Signatures in the [Signatures Overview](/signatures/overview).

Compiling these Functions requires the appropriate toolchain to be installed on your machine.

<Snippet file="install-golang-toolchain.mdx" />

## Host Support

To use a compiled Scale Function (written in any supported language) inside a Golang application, there are 3 steps:
1. Import the Scale Function(s) into the Golang application by embedding them or by using the Registry
2. Create a new Scale Runtime and pass in the Scale Function(s)
3. Call the `Run` method on the Scale Runtime with your request

### Importing Scale Functions

Scale Functions can be imported into a Golang application in two ways:
- [Embedding them Directly](#embedding-scale-functions)
- [Using the Registry](#using-the-registry)

#### Embedding Scale Functions

Scale Functions can be embedded into a Golang application by using the `//go:embed` directive, after it has been
exported using the `scale fn export` command (see [Exporting Scale Functions](/cli/exporting)).

```go
import (
	"embed"
	"github.com/loopholelabs/scalefile/scalefunc"
)

//go:embed <path to exported function>
var embeddedFunction []byte

func main() {
    // ...
    sf := new(ScaleFunc)
	_ = sf.Decode(embeddedFunction)
    // ...
}
```

#### Using the Registry

Scale Functions can also be imported into a Golang application by using the Registry.

This has the advantage of allowing you import the function at runtime, rather than at compile time - however it does require your function
to be available in the [Scale Registry](/registry/overview). Functions will also automatically cached locally based on their
tags and hashes, so subsequent calls to `Download` will be much faster.

```go
import "github.com/loopholelabs/scale/go/registry"

func main() {
	// ...
    sf, _ := registry.Download("<function name>", "<function tag>", registry.WithOrganization("<organization name>"), registry.WithAPIKey("<api key>"))
    // ...
}
```

<Note>
    If your function is an official Scale Function you can omit the `registry.WithOrganization` option, and if your function
    is marked as public you can safely omit the `registry.WithAPIKey` option.

    All officially published scale functions are public. If you're interested in publishing your own functions, please join
    the `#scale` channel on our [discord](https://loopholelabs.io/discord).
</Note>


### Creating a Scale Runtime

Once you've imported your Scale Function(s) into your Golang application, you can create a new instance of the Scale Runtime
and pass in the Scale Function(s).

```go
import (
	"context"
	scale "github.com/loopholelabs/scale/go"
)

func main() {
    // ...
	ctx := context.Background()
    r := scale.New(ctx, sf) // Or scale.New(ctx, sf1, sf2, sf3, ...)
    // ...
}
```

### Running a Scale Function

Once you've created the Scale Runtime, you can call the `Instance` method on it to get a new runtime instance.
The `Context` method of the `Instance` can then be used to set the request body, and the `Run` method can be used to
run the Scale Function (or Functions).

```go
import (
    "context"
)

func main() {
    // ...
    i, _ := r.Instance()
    i.Context().Request.Body = []byte("Hello, World!")

	ctx := context.Background()
    _ = i.Run(ctx)
    // ...
}
```

<Note>
    You'll notice that we're not passing anything into to the `r.Instance` method above. In actually, it is possible to pass in
    one or multiple native golang functions (with the signature `(ctx *signature.Context) (*signature.Context, error)`) to be run
    as part of the Scale Function chain.

    The `Instance` method will automatically pass the result of the  previous function to the next one (and pass the
    responses back up through the chain).

    If you're not using a native handler (or handlers) at the end of the chain, you can don't need to pass anything
    into the `r.Instance` method.
</Note>

It's important to note that an `Instance` can be reused multiple times, but it's not thread-safe. If you need to run
multiple instances of a Scale Function concurrently, you'll need to create a new `Instance` for each one.

Instances are heavily optimized and will recycle themselves automatically when they're no longer in use. This means that
creating instances are very cheap and you can create as many as you need as often as you need.

<Info>
    The `Instance` method itself **is** thread-safe and can be called concurrently.
</Info>

### Putting it all Together

Here's a complete example of a Golang application that imports a Scale Function, creates a new Scale Runtime, and runs
it.

<Tabs>
    <Tab title="Embedding the Function">
        ```go scale.go
        package main

        import (
            "context"
            "embed"
            "fmt"
            scale "github.com/loopholelabs/scale/go"
        )

        //go:embed hello-world-latest.scale
        var embeddedFunction []byte

        func main() {
            sf := new(scale.ScaleFunc)
            _ = sf.Decode(embeddedFunction)

            ctx := context.Background()
            r := scale.New(ctx, sf)

            i, _ := r.Instance()
            i.Context().Request.Body = []byte("Hello, World!")

            _ = i.Run(ctx)

            fmt.Println(string(i.Context().Response.Body))
        }
        ```
    </Tab>
    <Tab title="Using the Scale Registry">
        ```go scale.go
        package main

        import (
            "context"
            "fmt"
            scale "github.com/loopholelabs/scale/go"
            "github.com/loopholelabs/scale/go/registry"
        )

        func main() {
            sf, _ := registry.Download("hello-world", "latest")

            ctx := context.Background()
            r := scale.New(ctx, sf)

            i, _ := r.Instance()
            i.Context().Request.Body = []byte("Hello, World!")

            _ = i.Run(ctx)

            fmt.Println(string(i.Context().Response.Body))
        }
        ```
    </Tab>
</Tabs>

## What's Next?

Now that you've learned how to use Scale Functions inside your Golang application, you should check out our pre-made
adapters for popular Golang frameworks and libraries, such as [net/http](/languages/golang/adapters/net-http) and [FastHTTP](/languages/golang/adapters/fasthttp).
