docs/signatures/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: Overview
description: Learn how Scale Signatures work and how they're used in Scale Functions.
---

Signatures are one of the core concepts behind Scale Functions.

They are used to define the inputs and outputs of a function using a declarative syntax we call the **Scale Signature DSL**,
and once they are parsed by our compiler we are able to generated cross-language type safety.

We use the [Polyglot](https://github.com/loopholelabs/polyglot-go) library under the hood to facilitate efficient
serialization and deserialization of structured data between host and guest languages and to cross the WASM boundary.

We also publish and support a number of **Official** Scale Signatures for common use cases:

| Signature                  | Description                                                        | Supported Languages              | Available Adapters                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Latest Version |
|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|
| [HTTP](/signatures/http)   | HTTP Signature meant to be used for HTTP handlers and middleware.  | Go, Rust, TypeScript, JavaScript | [net/http](/languages/golang/adapters/net-http), [FastHTTP](/languages/golang/adapters/fasthttp), [ExpressJS](/languages/javascript-typescript/adapters/expressjs), [NextJS](/languages/javascript-typescript/adapters/nextjs) | 0.3.6          |

Official are maintained by the Scale Functions team and come with [Adapters](/languages/golang/adapters/net-http) which
allow them to be used seamlessly from popular Frameworks and Libraries.

<Note>
    We are working on a way to allow users to publish their own Signatures! If you are interested in this feature,
    please join the `#scale` channel in our [Discord](https://loopholelabs/discord) and let us know!\
</Note>

Commit message:

Adding CLI coverage
Signed-off-by: Shivansh Vij <shivanshvij@loopholelabs.io>

docs/signatures/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: Overview
description: Learn how Scale Signatures work and how they're used in Scale Functions.
---

Signatures are one of the core concepts behind Scale Functions.

They are used to define the inputs and outputs of a function using a declarative syntax we call the **Scale Signature DSL**,
and once they are parsed by our compiler we are able to generated cross-language type safety.

We use the [Polyglot](https://github.com/loopholelabs/polyglot-go) library under the hood to facilitate efficient
serialization and deserialization of structured data between host and guest languages and to cross the WASM boundary.

We also publish and support a number of **Official** Scale Signatures for common use cases:

| Signature                  | Description                                                        | Supported Languages              | Available Adapters                                                                                                                                           | Latest Version |
|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|
| [HTTP](/signatures/http)   | HTTP Signature meant to be used for HTTP handlers and middleware.  | Go, Rust, TypeScript, JavaScript | [net/http](/languages/golang/adapters/net-http), [FastHTTP](/languages/golang/adapters/fasthttp), [NextJS](/languages/javascript-typescript/adapters/nextjs) | 0.3.6          |

Official are maintained by the Scale Functions team and come with [Adapters](/languages/golang/adapters/net-http) which
allow them to be used seamlessly from popular Frameworks and Libraries.

<Note>
    We are working on a way to allow users to publish their own Signatures! If you are interested in this feature,
    please join the `#scale` channel in our [Discord](https://loopholelabs/discord) and let us know!\
</Note>

## Chaining Functions

Scale Functions are designed to be chained together to form a pipeline of functions that can be executed sequentially.

To allow developers to make decisions about when the next function in the chain should be executed, all signatures provide a
`Next()` method which runs the next function in the chain.

```go
//go:build tinygo || js || wasm
package scale

import (
    signature "github.com/loopholelabs/scale-signature-http"
)

func Scale(ctx *signature.Context) (*signature.Context, error) {
    ctx.Response().SetBody("Hello, World!")
    return ctx.Next()
}
```

If there is no next function in the chain, the `Next()` method will not do anything and will return the same context.
