examples/README.md, before:

# Scale by Loophole Labs

Welcome to the Scale repository! Scale is an innovative framework designed to simplify and enhance your experience with WebAssembly and distributed computing. This README will guide you through the examples and demos contained in the `/examples` directory, making it easy and fun to get started with Scale.

## Overview

The `/examples` directory is your go-to place for hands-on demonstrations of Scale's capabilities. Each example showcases different features and use cases, providing you with practical insights into how you can leverage Scale in your projects. Whether you're a beginner or an advanced user, these examples will help you understand the power and flexibility of Scale.

## Examples

## Getting Started

To get started with any of these examples, navigate to the respective directory and follow the instructions in the `README.md` file located within each example. Each README provides step-by-step guidance on setting up and running the example.

### Prerequisites

- [Scale CLI](https://github.com/loopholelabs/scale-cli)

### Running an Example

1. Clone the repository:
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/loopholelabs/scale.git
   cd scale/examples/<example-directory>
   Follow the instructions in the example's README.md file to set up and run the example.
   ```

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! If you have an idea for a new example or an improvement to an existing one, please feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.

## Community

[![Discord](https://dcbadge.vercel.app/api/server/JYmFhtdPeu?style=flat)](https://loopholelabs.io/discord)

Join our community to share your experiences, ask questions, and collaborate with other Scale users. You can find us on [Discord](https://loopholelabs.io/discord)  and follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/loopholelabs).


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Examples: add getting started info, docs refs

examples/README.md, after:

# Scale by Loophole Labs

Welcome to the Scale repository! Scale is an innovative framework designed to simplify and enhance your experience with WebAssembly and distributed computing. This README will guide you through the examples and demos contained in the `/examples` directory, making it easy and fun to get started with Scale.

## Overview

The `/examples` directory is your go-to place for hands-on demonstrations of Scale's capabilities. Each example showcases different features and use cases, providing you with practical insights into how you can leverage Scale in your projects. Whether you're a beginner or an advanced user, these examples will help you understand the power and flexibility of Scale.

## Examples

## Getting Started

This examples directory is divided into 3 categories: `signatures`, `extensions`, and `advanced`.

If you are new to Scale, **it is highly recommended that you start with the `signatures` examples**, since [Scale Signatures](https://scale.sh/docs/signatures/overview) are
a fundamental part of using Scale in all settings. See [the documentation](https://scale.sh/docs/signatures/overview) for more detail.

To get started with any of these examples, navigate to the respective directory and follow the instructions in the `README.md` file located within each example. Each README provides step-by-step guidance on setting up and running the example.

### Prerequisites

- [Scale CLI](https://github.com/loopholelabs/scale-cli)

### Running an Example

1. Clone the repository:
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/loopholelabs/scale.git
   cd scale/examples/<example-directory>
   Follow the instructions in the example's README.md file to set up and run the example.
   ```

### Documentation

Full Documentation is available at [scale.sh](https://scale.sh/docs/getting-started/overview)

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! If you have an idea for a new example or an improvement to an existing one, please feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.

## Community

[![Discord](https://dcbadge.vercel.app/api/server/JYmFhtdPeu?style=flat)](https://loopholelabs.io/discord)

Join our community to share your experiences, ask questions, and collaborate with other Scale users. You can find us on [Discord](https://loopholelabs.io/discord)  and follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/loopholelabs).


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
