docs/extensions/hcl.mdx, before:

---
title: HCL Format + Examples
description: Information on using the HCL format to define Scale Extensions.
---

The [Hashicorp Configuration Language](https://developer.hashicorp.com/packer/docs/templates/hcl_templates) (HCL) is used to define extensions in human readable way.

## HCL Basics

### Attributes

In HCL, an `attribute` is a fundamental element that assigns a value to a name. Attributes are key-value pairs, and their values can be simple literals (like strings or numbers), or they can be more complex expressions.

For example:


```hcl
field1 = "a field"
field2 = 2
```


### Blocks

`blocks`, in HCL, are structures representing a higher-order configuration container that can hold attributes and, in some cases, nested blocks. Blocks form the core structure of HCL-based configurations, especially in tools like Terraform, and in Scale Signatures and Extensions.

A block in HCL has a type, zero or more labels, and a body. The type defines the kind of configuration the block will hold (like a resource, or in the case below, a model). Labels are additional identifiers to distinguish or parameterize the block further. The body of the block contains attributes and possibly nested blocks.

```hcl
model Thing {
  string "name" {
    default  = ""
    accessor = true
  }
}
```

## Example Extensions

Commit message:

docs: add extension block types

docs/extensions/hcl.mdx, after:

---
title: HCL Format + Examples
description: Information on using the HCL format to define Scale Extensions.
---

The [Hashicorp Configuration Language](https://developer.hashicorp.com/packer/docs/templates/hcl_templates) (HCL) is used to define extensions in human readable way.

## HCL Basics

### Attributes

In HCL, an `attribute` is a fundamental element that assigns a value to a name. Attributes are key-value pairs, and their values can be simple literals (like strings or numbers), or they can be more complex expressions.

For example:


```hcl
field1 = "a field"
field2 = 2
```


### Blocks

`blocks`, in HCL, are structures representing a higher-order configuration container that can hold attributes and, in some cases, nested blocks. Blocks form the core structure of HCL-based configurations, especially in tools like Terraform, and in Scale Signatures and Extensions.

A block in HCL has a type, zero or more labels, and a body. The type defines the kind of configuration the block will hold (like a resource, or in the case below, a model). Labels are additional identifiers to distinguish or parameterize the block further. The body of the block contains attributes and possibly nested blocks.

```hcl
model Thing {
  string "name" {
    default  = ""
    accessor = true
  }
}
```

the types of the blocks for extensions include: `interface`, `function`, `enum`, `model`.


## Example Extensions
